What about interfaces?
So interfaces are more
limited than type aliases,
in that they can only be used to
define what we call object types.
And object types are things
that are conceivably look kinda
like a class instance
are an object with properties.
Important to realize that union
type operators anything like this,
make something not an object type.
That's a little bit more complicated
than an object type, right?
Because it's like, it has these two
possibilities, it could be one or
the other, and
interface cannot describe that.
It could describe what's being
used within something that
uses one of these operators for
sure, but not this whole thing.
You could not describe that with
an interface, so it is more limited.
Just like type aliases you can import and
export interfaces from modules,
just like type aliases,
they completely compile away and
disappear as part of your build process.
Inheritance has a lot more formality
around it with interfaces.
So TypeScript calls,
keywords like extends, and
we're gonna talk about
another one in a moment.
Implements, calls these
things heritage clauses, and
that they are used to describe ancestry in
an object oriented hierarchy of some sort.
Extends is used to describe
inheritance between like things.
Implements is used to describe
inheritance between unlike things.
So we can see that classes can
extend from classes, right?
We've seen this in JavaScript.
Interfaces can extend
from other interfaces.
But when working with classes and
interfaces,
that's when you're gonna wanna
use this implements keyword.
And what you're saying here
is I have this interface, and
it describes the properties.
And potentially the methods, like this is
the way you would type a method, right?
I'm gonna eat some food.
We'll talk about void a little bit later
just for now it's doesn't return anything.
So we'll eat some food.
When you say Dog implements AnimalLike,
what you're saying is,
Make sure that my Dog
class does everything
that an animal like interface requires.
Every instance of dog should make
AnimalLike as an interface happy, right?
And we're missing this eat method.
So this is a good way,
interfaces are a great way to
define contracts between things.
And to say maybe I have these five or
six different classes,
maybe they all have some support for
logging or for, I don't know.
Some common like cross-cutting
thing that your code base needs,
it could define an interface, you could
use that interface for many classes.
And you're assured that TypeScript will
make sure each of these has what it needs.
So we can see that the error we saw above
goes away as soon as we add the method.
So now our class is complete,
it implements everything
that AnimalLike demands.
Now, if you've ever worked with
a programming language that supports true
multiple inheritance, you'll
understand that it's probably a good
thing that JavaScript
doesn't allow us to do this.
By that we mean subclasses
that have multiple base
classes that may mix with
each other in funny ways.
Multiple inheritance makes
things wildly complicated.
This is a way to have multiple facades.
To have a class that aligns
with multiple contracts.
I'm calling these contracts, right?
It's a commitment to do everything
the interface says you must do.
You can implement many interfaces.
So here we've got a class
called LivingOrganism,
we've got AnimalLike we've got CanBark.
So these are both interfaces here.
And we can see that the dog
can have a base class.
And it can implement as many
interfaces as it wants down here.
No problem, no problem at all.
So it is possible.
And I'll pop this out in
the in the playground here so
I can play with it a little bit.
It is totally possible if you had
a type alias that looked like this,
You can extend or
you can implement, [LAUGH] right?
A type alias,
we're seeing that right here.
However, you're kinda asking for
trouble here.
Because as soon as this type
alias becomes more complicated,
the compiler is going to object.
So I prefer to exclusively use
interfaces with this implement keyword,
because the rules that
interfaces demand that you align
with guarantee that they will
work nicely with classes.
Imagine a case where you're using this
type in a bunch of different places.
Sometimes with the class, sometimes
to define the argument of a function,
you may find it useful to
add something like this but
your object oriented inheritance
is not gonna work there.
Basically if we had this here, it would
kind of imply that your constructor for
dog, like I'm gonna run new dog and
I might get a number back, that's weird.
It was theoretically possible in
JavaScript with like proxies or
some other exotic stuff.
It's not what you want, [LAUGH] it's not
what you almost certainly trying to do.
So yeah,
you could use a type alias here as long
as it's not something like this, right?
It would have to just be an object type.
So I recommend,
just use interfaces with implements.
All right, interfaces are open.
You may have heard about this.
You may have read about this.
What does it mean?
It means that unlike with type aliases,
we can have multiple declarations here,
right?
Where we've got interface AnimalLike,
interface AnimalLike.
We have a twice in a file.
If this were a class or a variable or
function, something like that,
we would be screamed at saying,
look, you already defined this thing,
I already have something by this name.
You can't do that again.
You can't write on top of it or
whatever, whatever you're trying to do,
you can't do it.
Well, with interfaces, you absolutely can.
And what effectively is happening here
is up here we're saying we have one
method it's called isAlive and down here,
we're augmenting the interface.
We're basically saying, look,
there exists this AnimalLike thing
add on top of it, an eat method.
And note that the fact that
we're doing this down here,
It's a pervasive change that's happening.
It doesn't matter that we're
doing it lower down in the code,
the eat method is clearly
available right here.
In fact this would have ramifications
throughout your project.
If you had this in one
file your eat method,
as a result of this
would pop up everywhere.
This is not a localized thing.
This is a holistic across
your app change potentially.
Anywhere that you're using this AnimalLike
type, you would see this change.
You would see this eat method.
Why is this useful?
Why would I care about this?
Where and how is this useful?
I've highlighted it for you because
it's probably a burning question.
Well, sometimes we pin things
on the globals, right?
Like we add stuff to the window object.
Maybe there's some emerging thing that
will soon be available in JavaScript and
you wanna code as if it's their promise
that finally might be an example of this.
It was only recently standardized, right?
So you may have to tack some things on
to an interface that already exists.
And you can see that we're
able to do that here.
So window, this is like the window that's
available in your web browser, right?
Window.document, you're used
to running this, right?
So by just having this little piece of
code here, we're augmenting window,
we're changing it, such that, We've
got all of this stuff on here, right?
But we've also got our example property,
so we're sort of tacking something on.
You'll find little things like this.
You may think of like,
globals are bad, right?
We don't wanna do this, but you'll find
that you're consuming some library.
The type information is incomplete,
you just wanna tack this one thing on,
this is a way to do it,
this is a good way to do it.
Augmenting an interface.
Because they're open,
you can always add to them.
So which one to use and when?
Most of the time to be honest,
it's completely up to you.
There are fewer and fewer advantages
as time goes on to fewer and
fewer places where one makes
any more sense than the other.
However, A couple clear,
Choices to make in some scenarios.
Number one, if you're using
anything that does not align
with this idea of an object type, right?
Where if you're using
this union type operator,
you must use a type alias,
you cannot use an interface.
Number two, this is my recommendation
not a hard constraint.
But if you want to use something that
it's designed for a class to consume,
like class dog implements,
can eat food, or something like that.
I would advise strongly that you use
interfaces for that because you will by
making that decision never find yourself
in a place where the type you're
creating becomes incompatible
with object-oriented inheritance.
Number three, if you deliberately
want consumers of your types to
augment your types,
you must use an interface.
Cases like this will become more clear
in the intermediate TypeScript course.
But there are situations where, A user of
your code might sort of inject
stuff into your interfaces so
they can describe the code
that they've written,
which may be interacts with
a library that you've written.
But interfaces because they are open and
type aliases are not,
interfaces are the tool for this job.
Finally, let's talk about recursive types.
So by recursive types, I just simply
mean types that are self referential.
So if we look at this, let's pretend
we just want nested arrays of numbers.
How would we describe the type for this?
Well, you could do it as follows.
We could say, nested numbers is either
a number or an array of nested numbers.
So recently this is
a TypeScript 3.7 feature.
Type aliases started to support this.
You used to have to use
a combination of interfaces and
types in order to accomplish this, but
now, this becomes a lot easier to write.
You're just saying it's a number or
an array of myself.
And as a result,
we can do something like this.
And you can see that .push
is validated as it should,
because it wants numbers or
arrays of numbers, or
recursive arrays of numbers.
Thomas asks the question,
kinda going back to interfaces here.
Does augmentation of interfaces
persist across files?
Yes, type checking should
be a holistic operation
that's performed on your
entire app at once.
So, there is no such thing as local
augmentation of an interface.
It's a whole set of constraints for
all of your code as it all fits together,
including your dependencies.
And that's type checking
is all of that at once.